In this video we'll take a look at what's new and distributed resource scheduler for VSE for 6.5 Vee's
for 6.5 has introduced some significant enhancements to Diyar ass.
And one of the biggest enhancements is this feature called predictive DNS so predictive diarists actually
leverages viu realize.
Operations manager then and it uses VI realized operations manager in combination with everything that
it used to look at for just dress.
And the goal is to migrate virtual machines before resource contention ever occurs.
I need to be proactive in our approach.
So if you're not really familiar with vi realize operations let's take a moment just to very quickly
cover the basics of what we realize operations does.
And so we have our V Center server Let's call this the center and the center is sitting there kind of
watching everything right cutting logs and statistics and managing Diyar Ross and what we can do is
we can set up a V realize operations with the center as a source as a source of information.
And so now all of these metrics all of this information that visiters constantly collecting and looking
at is going to be pumped into view realize operations and Virial eyes operations will take all of that
data.
All of that information it'll determine if multiple metrics are related somehow it'll understand dynamic
thresholds.
And by dynamic thresholds I mean we realize operations will eventually figure out the normal state of
our environment what normal usage looks like what normal CPQ and memory patterns and disk space usage
patterns and all those sort of things that will figure out the normal behavior of our environment over
time and as weeks go by It'll get better and better at understanding what's normal and what's not.
And it's going to leverage those dynamic thresholds to basically determine when something is going wrong.
Right.
That's going to give predictive de-risked the ability to forecast resource shortages and to migrate
venoms before resources become an issue right before contention even occurs based on these dynamic thresholds.
So what it might do is say okay we realize operations maybe has a dynamic threshold first.
Keep your memory usage and those these two victims that are running on the same ESX I host.
And so eventually we realize operations will start to understand the normal behaviors of these vamp's
and may be you know at 12 midnight each night.
Both of these virtual machines run some sort of very memory intensive batch processing every day the
minute they do the same thing.
Well eventually we realize operations is going to pick up on this pattern if their host is low on memory
made say OK it's 11:55.
Let's migrate one of these VMS to a different host so that they don't both Kickoff.
There's a really memory intensive operation on the same ESX I host
so whereas Deloris has always been responsive.
Right it's weighted for resource contention to occur.
And it's taken action after the fact.
Now predictive de-risk can potentially eliminate resource consumption before it ever occurs.
By leveraging the power of the realized operations manager
there are some additional enhancements to Diyar us as well starting with virtual machine distribution.
We can enable dress to evenly distribute virtual machines across hosts.
Now virtual machine performance is still the top priority for DUI arrests and arrests will continue
to ensure that their demand of the Virgin machines is met.
However if it can equally distribute the number of CMS on each host it will do that.
And the rationale is by equally distributing volume's we minimize the impact of any single host failure.
So if there is one host that has 20 AVMA and one host that only has 10.
It's a much more of an impact of the host with 20 VAMC fails.
But if we only put 15 VMS on both hosts and they're equally distributed now the impact of a single host
failure is limited
there are other settings that you can enforce like you overcommitment settings.
So what we can do is we can enforce a maximum virtual CPQ to physical C-p you ratio.
And this is handy if you want to just make sure that we're not too heavily over subscribing.
Right so for example maybe I have a host with for physical use I can say I want my ratio to be 4 to
1.
That means I'm only going to be able to create 16 virtual C-p use for all of the VMs running on that
host.
And it can help prevent Seip you contention in environments where maybe we have steep spikes at certain
times like virtual desktop environments.
This is a very handy setting.
Another new option is network aware distributed resource scheduler so there's already many metrics that
go into deep grass migrations.
Now the IRS will also take network utilization into account.
It will watch the transmit and receive rates of the physical ethernet adapters on your ESX host.
And if a host is becoming overwhelmed with network traffic over 80 percent de-risk will not migrate
for machines to that host so Network utilization is one of the many factors that de-risk now considers
de-risk has also improved how it integrates with fault tolerance and so fault tolerance has always been
bandwidth intensive with fault tolerance you have an active VM and a standby VM and they have to be
kept exactly the same.
So anything that happens on the active VM needs to be immediately duplicated on the stand by VM and
that can take a lot of bandwidth especially since vse fair six introduced support for Moel tie virtual
you via SMS with fault tolerance that exacerbates the problem even further and it makes the bandwidth
requirements even more so.
De-risk can be aware of this.
Right it can make placement decisions by ranking hosts based on the available network bandwidth and
by recommending the data store in which to place the secondary V MBK files.
And so the fact that DRM is now aware of network performance allows it to support fault tolerance better.